Until now, you already know how to create variables,
you specify the type,
let's say an integer, you give it a name,
and you use it in your code.
This also works for doubles and characters,
and even for your own data types in the form of classes or structs.
You've also come across the concept of pointers and references and many people say
that C++ is hard because of them and in part, this is somewhat true.
When you use new at some place in your code,
you need a delete somewhere else in your code,
otherwise there might be trouble.
But don't make the mistake of using delete
twice because otherwise your program will crash,
and maybe this is what they mean by heart.
When you create variables without new,
they will live on the so-called stack,
which is a special place in memory about which we will talk a lot in this course.
If you create a variable using new,
it will be allocated on the heap instead,
which is yet another area of program memory.
So you need to know both about stack and about heap.
Memory management on the stack is pretty straightforward.
There is not much to it as you will soon see,
and the bad news here is the size of the stack is limited to a few megabytes only,
so that's not enough for many programs.
Now the heap on the other side can grow much
larger depending on your system architecture.
Is it 32-bit?
Is it 64-bit?
However, it needs to be managed very carefully by you as
a programmer so as to avoid performance problems or even worse.
When people talk about memory management,
they are most often referring to the heap.
But it is the combination of stack and heap in C++,
where the true potential awaits.
The concept of smart pointers really benefits from
this combination and so would you once you finish this course.
But memory management in modern C++ is much more than smart pointers in this course.
We will talk here about computer architecture, about memory types,
about the process memory model,
about automatic memory allocation,
and different ways of passing data to functions.
Also we will discuss dynamic memory allocation which happens
on the heap using new entity but also malloc,
and free which are a legacy from the old ANSI C which is still around,
but in understanding the somewhat aged concepts,
you will be better able to leverage the power
of the modern counterparts in C++ 11 and beyond.
Also we will look at the variety of
memory management problems such as memory leaks, dangling pointers,
and several more before we move on to copy and move semantics,
a concept called RAII,
and finally smart pointers.
By the end of the course,
you will be well prepared to solve some ambitious tasks
in the final project which involves creating a memory and management chat bot.
So don't lose time and start right away.
See you soon in the first lesson.